Hi!
Welcome
Thank you all for waiting
My name is Rich Hickey and I'm here to talk about
Clojure
It's a program language
I developed to solve a number of problems
One of which was [organized?] concurrent programs easily
So, tonight, talks is gone a be so a general review of clojure and specific look at some of the concurrency support that sponsed by a language.
So, I gonna siricly introduction
As I say I give a quick tutorial of the features
But on of them really would like to do tonight is look at peace software written in clojure.
And so, I'd liked, hopefully, if I can move a good pace.
Get Will true my slides , so an ideas
show an you behind I will show an your
And than look at some code
Hopefully more apartunity looking to syntatic in clojure. And feature
Lookead at this programm. We will this thinks in the action.
So, quick feature tutorial.
Then [I gone] setup so a problem space in particular talk about shared state. How is doing today? How is doing in C#, Java, C++?
What happens when we get to a multi-threading context and specifically what a some the current solution for that in all spaces.
You know, locken in particular.
That somethink are done a lot of over a long period of time.
And, I'm tied
We got it a simply far to difficult
00:03:43.89
And tern what a clojure does. Tryin solve the problem ... transaction is a feature of a clojure.
And cool little ant simulation with multi-threading graphic components and somethink that in gennerly
hard to correctly almost common languages
qustions..
ok. I quicly. stack
So, I'm soft developed scedgeling system, finget printin and machine listenting software
I archetect .. hard
worked an C++, C#, java, Mathematic, Common LISP python.
need to here.
common lisp or scheme?
Ok, have
How java, C#, java, Scala
eml or haskel? Just a cuply.
Ok
python, ruby, groovy?
Ok/
How about Clojure?
And an 27
How an multi-threading programming?
So about a hafe.
aknowladmen at this point.
Great!
When you clojure, you will see...
but neve used java. What is java dark?
And
00:04:41.038
I know many people come from haskel
you ti
Tonigh examples, eml will be a point
But clojure acon python, ruby, gove is dynamic language
ueful
accessable of those
That the fundoment. It is a functional language.... And you can convension. But Clojure is a functional eml is functila. You can change it, pritty mutch.
data strucate is immutable.
So it is functial, percistent..
That the function is ...
Moch more functioal than most LISPs...
And I wuold say characteristics of a LISP
data strucate not in a
gramma of a charac...
But the LISP
but it is not a or scheme...
So what all you even need is the refernce, that can you change.
??? This recording change version
So, there ara three types of ???biz reference in clojure
This call vars, and are bar is used actaially to hold global variables and functions
So, this a global moution to a bar
In addition vars have abillatiy to be bound to values inside the thread.
And once a bound inside the thread that bounding is independent anothe threads. So I can bind a var call ???dex to a ???value in this thread, I can bind two different value in ???oure thread and this thread can manipulate ???axe complitly independently.
Without to ?encry each other. And when you done with a bounding in all rows like a stack and explain ???alibi more. But the primitive vars is a vars for ??isoletive changes with in threads.
This thread is only wonna will see what is that a little ???axe. This thread is only wonna see is what is that with ??axe. That what one thing that we need to do in programs.
Another thing that we need to do in programs is most complex case. It's the I need to move ??? this account to that account. And I wonna make the shure it's in one account or the other, never in both and never in none. That is really hard I need to change two things. Need a make a hole change atomic.